# Reproduction of results

This document describes the steps to reporduce the study "Sedimentation Rates Determine Temporal Resolution and Disorder of the Stratigraphic Record".

Reproducing the study from scratch requires Matlab. Data generated by matlab is saved under `data/matlab_outputs/ADDs_from_matlab.mat`. This file is provided as part of the repository to allow reproduction of results without acces to Matlab.

If you don't have access to Matlab, simply start with the instructions for R.

## Reproduce Matlab results

Open the root folder of the repository in Matlab. Then, run

```Matlab
run("code/matlab/create_adds.m")
```

This will determine the dimensionless time-averaging below the SML as a function of mixing intensity (Peclet number), and simulate the age-depth distribution of particles in the Po4 core. The results are saved under `data/matlab_outputs/ADDs_from_matlab.mat` and are described in detail in the file `codebook.md` in the same folder.

Running this requires Matlab 2006a or more recent.

## Reproduce R results

### Requirements

R (>= 4.2), RStudio IDE

### Instructions

Open the file *StratRecRes_supp.Rproj* in the RStudio IDE. This will set all your paths correctly, and install the `renv` package (if not already installed). Then, run

```R
renv::restore()
```

in the console to install all packages required for the analysis in their correct version. Then run

```R
source("code/r/analysis.R")
```

in the console to run the analysis. This will generate all figures and save them under `figs/` and generate the file `data/res/results.csv` containing all results mentioned in the manuscript.
